Docs: Create fragments session in documentation (#1943)
vtex/faststore: apps/site/pages/docs/api-extensions.mdx

}
```

---

## Extending Queries Using Fragments

When developers need to include custom fields in existing server queries, they can utilize the src/fragments folder. Within this directory, they can generate files containing GraphQL fragments, which can then be integrated into the desired queries for extension purposes.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add additional fields to an existing query, follow the steps below. We will use the `ClientProductGallery` query as an example to demonstrate how to extend a query.

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
 
<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  We will use the `ClientProductGallery` query to illustrate.
</Callout>

Step 1: Create a New File
Create a new `.ts` file in the `src/fragments` folder named `ClientProductGallery.ts`. *The name of the file should match the name of the query you want to extend.*

Step 2: Define the GraphQL Fragment
In the `ClientProductGallery.ts` file, define the GraphQL fragment corresponding to the new fields you want. In this example, the new field is represented by `newField` with a `data` property to retrieve. Use the following syntax as a guideline: 
```

Reviewer: After `step 2`, the idea is to have the code introduced in the [230 line](https://github.com/vtex/faststore/pull/1943/files#diff-1814207badc0abee689ae7fa4154d83970f77ea8e797626c99515700e23803cdR230). Also, it would be helpful for whom is following the guide to have the result of this example or at least what should they expect from it.

}
```

---

## Consume new fields from pages

GraphQL enables clients to precisely define the required data by crafting specific GraphQL queries. The server then returns only the data that matches the query, eliminating the need for multiple requests, client-side filtering, and reducing the amount of data from requests.

Therefore, it is crucial to avoid requesting unnecessary fields in queries and to be mindful of fragments that may call extraneous data in other contexts. By using GraphQL in this manner, we can optimize performance and streamline data transmission between clients and servers.

When rendering a custom page or adding a custom section to an existing page, sometimes it is necessary to add new fields fetched from the previously defined custom or extended schema. We should determine which fields/fragments we need to request for the rendering of each page and avoid over-fetching unused data.

## Extending Queries Using Fragments

> When developers need to include custom fields in existing server queries, they can utilize the src/fragments folder. Within this directory, they can generate files containing GraphQL fragments, which can then be integrated into the desired queries for extension purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add custom fields to existing [extendable queries](/docs/api-extensions#extendable-queries), extend them using fragments located in the `src/fragments` folder. Fragments are GraphQL components that can be integrated into queries to extend functionality.
```

> To introduce additional fields to an already established query, developers should generate a new .ts file within the src/fragments folder. This file's name should match the corresponding Query that requires extension.

Reviewer: It seems a step here. We can transform this paragraph and the others in a step-by-step.

Reviewer: I made a suggestion above :)

  fragment ServerProductPage on Query {
    product(locator: $locator) {
      customData
    }
  }
`
```

## Extendable Queries

<ul class="nx-section-checklist">
  <li>
    <details>
      <summary>Query: `ClientProductGalleryQuery`</summary>

        <table class="nx-simple-table">
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <th>Side</th>
                    <th>Query operation</th>
                    <th>Page</th>
                    <th>Where is used</th>
                    <th>Return</th>
                    <th>Parameters</th>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <tr>
                    <td>Client</td>
                    <td><a href="">Search</a></td>
                    <td>PLP</td>
                    <td>In the hook `useGalleryQuery()` from the `ProductGallery` component.</td>
                    <td>Products totalCount from StorePageInfo, and facets (StoreFacet) from StoreSearchResult.</td>
                    <td>Frontend data from the useSearch() and useLocalizedVariables() hooks, the latter uses useSession().</td>
                </tr>
            </tbody>
        </table>

    </details>
  </li>
</ul>

> | **Query Name** | **Side** | **Query operation** | **Page** | **Where is used** | **Return** | **Parameters** |

Author: Yes, i agree and the dropdown was pretty beautiful!

}
```

---

> ## Consume new fields from pages

Reviewer 2: What is the purpose of this section? Is it to **tell** our customers how to consume new fields on pages or is it to explain why this is a good idea or why they want to do it?

Reading it seems like we're trying to convince them to use GraphQL and given them motivation to use API Extension. If it is the case I'd suggest we rewrite this. The motivation should be already clear by this point on the docs.

Author: It was based on the introduction of this section in the RFC, but you are right, at this point of documentation is not necessary introduce the Graphql and fragments concept, I will just remove this first section.

## Extending Queries Using Fragments

When developers need to include custom fields in existing server queries, they can utilize the src/fragments folder. Within this directory, they can generate files containing GraphQL fragments, which can then be integrated into the desired queries for extension purposes.

To introduce additional fields to an already established query, developers should generate a new .ts file within the src/fragments folder. This file's name should match the corresponding Query that requires extension.

For instance, if a developer aims to retrieve a new query (illustrated here as newField with a data property) within the context of the ClientProductGallery query, the recommended approach involves creating a src/fragments/ClientProductGallery.ts file. This file should embody code similar to the example provided below:

```ts
// src/fragments/ClientProductGalery.ts

import { gql } from '@faststore/graphql-utils'

export const fragment = gql`
  fragment ClientProductGallery on Query {
    newField {
      data
    }
  }
`
```

## Queries to be extended

> ### ClientProductGalleryQuery (Client Side)

Author: It really was a table initially, but the center space of documentation is limited, so to improve the reading I transformed the table in this text. I will get back with the table to compare.
